(upbeat music)
Talk about building our Gatsby website.
So, at the end of the day
Gatsby is just a static site generator.
So, it will kick out HTML,
CSS and JavaScript in order to generate that JavaScript
because everything we've been doing so far
has just been in development mode.
But at the end of the day you need to kick it out.
So, in order to do that, you run npm run build,
which in turn is going to run Gatsby build,
but that will also include some of the stuff
so we can use ES modules.
And this will take anywhere from, I don't know,
15-20 seconds up till I've had some sites
that were 15 minutes or something like that.
And the really big kicker is if you have images
that need to be resized on build time,
that is what really ends up giving you a lot of time.
If you've got my personal wesbos.com,
it takes about 11-12-15 minutes to build.
And I've got, I don't know 500 images each
with a couple different sizes each.
So that can get up there.
But luckily, if you're using Sanity or any other
sort of image hosting service,
they do the resizing on their servers.
So you don't actually have to worry about that.
So that is the case for Sanity here.
Looks like I just ran up on an issue here,
order provider is not defined.
And that's happening on ground beef.
Okay, so what I'm gonna do
is open up my Gatsby site, and I'm going
to look at Gatsby SSR.
And, okay,
we've got our aha, here we go,
that it's right here.
So we open up our Gatsby browser.
You see that we have this wrap root element
where we just wrapped the root element
in our order provider,
and then we wrap the root element ,
and that happens in the browser.
But when you're doing a build,
it doesn't use Gatsby browser.
It does use that in the browser,
but it also uses Gatsby SSR
when it's generating HTML.
Looks like, this needs to be imported.
So if you don't have the issue,
it's because I also updated the the finished files.
But I thought I'd show you how to fix that.
And I bet now if we've run NPM,
run build again, it will now work.
Boom! Looks like it's done all of this garbage in here.
That's just because we've got console logs
and our Gatsby node,
you take those out.
So it doesn't show up.
Now, if we open this sucker up,
you will see in our Gatsby folder,
we have a public folder and look at this!
This is literally all of the pages
and everything that we need.
So, if you take a look,
here's our index HTML,
you can open that up and (chuckles) look,
it actually kind of works.
If you open it up on a file,
not all the URLs are going to resolve.
It does definitely still has to be
on a domain name, but look,
it's still kind of works (chuckles).
I like the URL like that
or the the font like that it's kinda funny.
But you see that every single page
that we have like Ford/pizza,
Ford/Jimi Hendrix, Ford/index HTML.
So, this is just like the olden days of HTML
and that we're just using folders to do all of our routing
and see that all of the URLs are in here.
So, that's how you build a Gatsby website.
Everything is sort of being kicked out there,
and then hosting the sucker.
We've got a couple different options
and we'll go into those in the next video.